add generate token docs (#34)
calimero-is-near/docs: docs/getting_started/generate_token.md

- **View accounts**: View account states
- **View contract code**: View the deployed wasm binary
- **View keys**: View account public keys
- **View contract state**: View state of the deployed contract
- **View transactions**: View transaction status
- **View blocks**: View block details
- **View chunks**: View chunk details

7. Click on **Generate Token**.
![](../../static/img/generate_token_button.png)

8. Once the token is issued, you can copy it to your clipboard or request to be sent to you via email.

:::tip
Once you have created your auth token, be sure to store it in a secure location, as it will be required to communicate with your private shard. The token cannot be obtained afterwards, which means you’ll have to issue a new token if you forget its value.
:::

With your auth token in hand, you are ready to call smart contracts or deploy dapps on Calimero Private Shard!

## Set up the NEAR CLI to access the Shard via CLI

To interact with Calimero shard using `near-cli`, you need to set the token value using **near set-api-key** command. 

```
 near set-api-key https://rpc.testnet.near.org <AUTH_TOKEN>   
```
Replace **<AUTH_TOKEN>** with your token value 

:::info

> The nodeUrl option is ignored when using the **set-api-key** call, on other calls you need to provide it to point to Calimero

Author: i'm guessing it will soon be released so let's add the nodeUrl option or should we wait till the official release

---
title: Generate Auth Token
sidebar_position: 5
---

>  Authentication token is needed for custom dapps and for CLI usage. Authentication tokens strengthen account security by verifying users identity. These unique codes offer protection from unauthorized access. This token will authenticate and authorize external applications to communicate with your shard. Calimero is a permissioned chain and it allows for granular control over the token's time to live and associated permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentication token is needed for communicating with the shard outside of the console. Authentication tokens strengthen account security by verifying users identity. These unique codes offer protection from unauthorized access. This token will authenticate and authorize external applications to communicate with your shard. Calimero is a permissioned chain and it allows for granular control over the token's time to live and associated permissions.
```

>  Authentication token is needed for custom dapps and for CLI usage. Authentication tokens strengthen account security by verifying users identity. These unique codes offer protection from unauthorized access. This token will authenticate and authorize external applications to communicate with your shard. Calimero is a permissioned chain and it allows for granular control over the token's time to live and associated permissions.

Reviewer: `Authentication tokens strengthen account security by verifying users identity.`
Which accounts are we talking about here?

![](../../static/img/token_permissions.png)

Granular access have the following checkboxes represent different types of permissions, such as:

- **Write**: Create blockchain transactions
- **View accounts**: View account states
- **View contract code**: View the deployed wasm binary
- **View keys**: View account public keys
- **View contract state**: View state of the deployed contract
- **View transactions**: View transaction status
- **View blocks**: View block details
- **View chunks**: View chunk details

7. Click on **Generate Token**.
![](../../static/img/generate_token_button.png)

8. Once the token is issued, you can copy it to your clipboard or request to be sent to you via email.

:::tip
Once you have created your auth token, be sure to store it in a secure location, as it will be required to communicate with your private shard. The token cannot be obtained afterwards, which means you’ll have to issue a new token if you forget its value.
:::

With your auth token in hand, you are ready to call smart contracts or deploy dapps on Calimero Private Shard!

## Setting up the NEAR CLI to access the Shard via CLI

> To interact with a Calimero shard using `near-cli`, you need to set the token value using **near set-api-key** command. At the time of writing, the "--nodeUrl" option is ignored, so you have to set the value to <https://rpc.testnet.near.org>. To set up your near CLI run the following commands, in your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To interact with a Calimero shard using `near-cli`, you need to set the token value using **near set-api-key** command. 

At the time of writing, the "--nodeUrl" option is ignored, so you have to set the value to <https://rpc.testnet.near.org>. To set up your near CLI run the following commands, in your terminal:
```
Put this as a `:::tip`

1. Set API key

```
 near set-api-key https://rpc.testnet.near.org <AUTH_TOKEN>   
```
- Replace **<AUTH_TOKEN>** with your token value 

> 2. Create a new keypair for the shard main account (if your shard name is 'demos-calimero-testnet', main shard account is 'demos.calimero.testnet').

Reviewer: Steps 2 to 11 are not needed to set up `near-cli`.
You can verify it works without generating a key by calling e.g. `near state <MAIN_ACCOUNT_ID>` with the proper `nodeUrl`

Author: @isoldo so the process from 2 to 11 should be removed

Reviewer: Process from 2 to 11 should be (re)moved. Maybe there's a page/section where it would be good to outline this process, but it's not here.
The `nodeUrl` option is ignored when using the `set-api-key` call, on other calls you need to provide it to point to Calimero
